#### CICD: Because updates can be pain

So far we've disucssed some tools you can use to get started like Terraform for Droplet provisioning, Ansible for configuraiton management, and Git as your SCM. With those tools we've provisioned some Droplets and deployed a WordPress blog with the application being load balanced as well as your database cluster, and we're using DigitalOcean Spaces to store your files. So far life is good and everything is running smoothly. But things do change. I'm not talking about catastrophic failures right now, I referring to changes you make. You could end up not liking the way something looks and decide it's time to try a new theme. or maybe you want to update, or create a new plugin. On the more serious side of things it could be time to update the WordPress core because there's a serious security vulnerability that was just patched. So what does your process or workflow look like for making these types of changes.

Normally you would start in your development environment, then once you're satisfied with the changes you'll push them up to you remote repo. Now you'll modify any files that specify version numbers to use in one of your roles, run your playbook in your staging environment, then begin testing out the changes. Once that's done and you're satisfied nothing is broken you can go ahead and push the changes out to production. The length of the process really depends on what you're modifying but once you application begins to grow and you start breaking things down even further, you may notice that it becomes a very tedious, time consuming, and error prone practice. Now if everything was done properly, maybe nothing bad happens. But maybe something does happen, and it will at some point, and now you have a bug that you need to work towards fixing very quickly because no one wants to see error pages when they're visiting your site. 

You'll want to catch errors as early in the process as possible by setting up some automation for testing and deployment. There are quite a few different choices you can go with, but some popular choices include Jenkins, CirleCI, TravisCI, GitLab CI, GoCD, and Concourse. The list is quite extensive with features varying throughout the bunch. If you have some time I recommend checking out the following DigitalOcean community article which gives a thorough breakdown of some of the CI/CD tools previously mentioned. 

https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/ci-cd-tools-comparison-jenkins-gitlab-ci-buildbot-drone-and-concourse

We're going to use Jenkins for our example as it has a large plugin catalog allowing users to automate basically any task under the sun, however, regardless of what you choose you should be able to set up some automated testing at minumum. This will allow you to catch changes that could cause an issue when released into production. Also, keep in mind that this is self-hosted automation server which means you will be responsible for its management and the cost of the Droplet it runs on. 

**Setup**

Another thing to note is we're making a change that we mentioned in the last chapter. Previously we were using Terraform and storing its state to your local file system. That was fine since we were just launching a small cluster and working solo, but now that we're tossing Jenkins into the mix it's going to need some information and the best way to provide that is by using a backend for Terraform's remote state. So we're going to set up a Consul server to store all the info about your environments. Now while in production you would want to set up a Consul cluster (3 or more nodes) configured with the appropriate security settings such as encryption of all traffic and setting up ACL's to control all access, it's not absolutely necessary if you're just running through this as a test. However, I do recommend making use of the DigitalOcean Cloud Firewalls to limit access to Droplets on your account based on their Droplet tag. Creating the Consul cluster is outside the scope of this book, but we have a great write-up in the community that will walk you through the process. Check out the following link for those details: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-using-consul-a-service-discovery-system-on-ubuntu-14-04

The next piece of the puzzle you'll need to set up is a Jenkins server. Jenkins is a Java application that requires version 8 be installed on your system iun order to run. That's a quick setup using `sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk`. From there the set up is very easy and should only take a few minutes if you following along with the following tutorial: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jenkins-on-ubuntu-16-04

With this pivot to using a remote backend to store Terraform's state, we actually need to make some changes that inform Terraform on where the state will be located. 
